first lecture from chapter number 8
today we'll solve the last topic from
chapter number 8 that is by CMOS NAND
and bi CMOS more we'll start with a
small recap where we know that CMOS that
a bi CMOS can be in general represented
as a combination of CMOS driver circuit
and two BJT transistors they both are of
NP and time the output high voltage is
transferred through q1 from space to
emitter and the output low is
facilitated by this transfer q2 and in
our last lecture we have studied an
example using bi CMOS not then this
lecture philtrum pious CMOS man to and
vice emotion or to write stress for post
study by CMOS NAND 2 we know we studied
in our last lecture 8:20 that the
formula to that the formula or the
technique to draw up a CMOS circuit is
this that we draw the regular p MOS
array first this is the regular p MOS
array of an and 2 and then we draw its
regular and most every he'll whereas the
output from the P Mo's is used to drive
q1 and the output from Elmo's is
connected to the output right and then
we repeat the same array here the same n
MOS is repeated are being it is repeated
exactly as it is here as it is in
regular CMOS it's repeated here
and then we always have this controlling
transistor which is always an Moss whose
gate is connected to the output from the
P Mo's array and and and it's train is
connected to the queue to transfer it's
always the same and and from the
combination of q1 q2 from the common
terminals of q1 q2 from the meter and
from the collector from the measure of
q1 and from the collector of q2 we get
the output so I repeat the N Mo's the P
Mo's array is drawn as search and most
array is shown here as search as it is
in decoder CMOS the N Mo's array is
repeated once again here we have this
controlling transistors and was input
the gate input hiss from the output of
the most early the train of this
controlling transfer is connected to the
base of q2 and the output from the p MOS
array is connected to the base of q1 and
the output from the n MOS arrays
connected to the output right we can use
this circuit to to verify the truth
table tt truth table truth table of men
do you know that comes we have this is 0
this is 0 the output should be a pawn we
can verify that and it's actually a
homework for questions if it is 0 0 here
0 here this array will be on and we'll
have VDD here VDD here and here we'll
have this base emitter Junction
subtracted out of VDD and the output
will be VDD minus VP II started a
certain video so we output hi would be
VT minus vbe slightly smaller than VDD
and you can verify it you can verify it
for other options let's move on to the
next
where I have drawn a schematic for bi
CMOS North - so we drop the same policy
the PMO's array is drawn the PMO's array
of regular CMOS is drawn here the N Mo's
array is drawn here the N Mo's array is
repeated here with the same inputs and
this is the controlling transistor like
we always have which is connected to the
output of the P Mo's array and about
output of the fema cell is connected to
the base of q1 and output the drain this
controlling transistor is connected to
the base of the second NPN transistor q2
and the output from the N Mo's array is
connected to the output here is a small
homework for muscles you have to verify
this was table for these four different
options that we can have this - and you
should be ready ready to know should be
able you should be able to draw
schematic by CMOS by see more schematic
for any boolean expression this is very
important now after we have studied
everything regarding bi CMOS you should
be able to should be able to draw
schematic for any given boolean
expression people try to solve an
example related to bi CMOS in the next
lecture that will hopefully be our last
lecture our last lecture from Japan her
head
thank you